[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In December of 2013,
an article was published
in "Nature Neuroscience" that
discussed a new study that was
trying to figure out how
memories can be passed down
to later generations through
genetic switches that allow
offspring to inherit the
experience of the ancestor.
Scientists have long assumed
that experiences were built up
over a lifetime,
but this new study
suggests that fear could be
passed down from our most
ancient ancestors.
This interesting information
begs the question,
how could our most
ancient ancestors
have implanted a thought
system we might use today?
Could there have been an
event in the past that
was so big, so terrifying,
that it would have altered
our DNA as a human species,
and that experience would
have forever changed
the experience of what
it means to be human?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In 2005, Wallace
Thornhill and Dave Talbott
published the book,
"Thunderbolts of the Gods."
This book explained a new theory
about our current universe.
They attempted to intertwine
the mythologies of the world
with the forgotten
science of cosmology.
Here, they presented evidence
of an electric universe,
a universe that operated
by different principles
than are understood in our
mainstream science today.
They believe that this
new theory explained
the massive damage that
happened to our ancient Earth
and our solar system
approximately 10,000 years ago.
According to their
work, this account
is recorded in almost every
ancient text around the world.
They weren't just mythologies,
they were real events.
Could this theory
explain an event so huge
that it would have been
ingrained in our DNA?
>> My work looks at
the complete picture.
What happened?
How did all of this begin?
What caused it to begin?
What did the ancients say
about the earlier period, which
they called the Golden Age.
What was that like?
What was that all about?
Some of those questions
meant that there
was something going on
other than just gravity
operating in the solar system.
The electric universe says
that very simply, energy
is a measure of the
motion of matter
in relation to all the rest
of the matter in the universe.
In other words, there is
universal connectivity,
which is far different
from the model at present
that we're presented
of the universe,
of isolation by huge
distances and by time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Cosmology has been described
as the queen of the sciences.
It is the intellectual
umbrella under which
all other sciences sit.
Current big bang
cosmology doesn't
fulfill that requirement.
It has no real connection to us
as individuals on this planet.
>> But what about the connection
between the mythologies on this
planet and cosmology?
>> Our research reconstructs
the history of the solar system.
Virtually every culture
around the globe
preserve their own story
of the dragon combat.
So in Greece, it was
Zeus fighting Typhon.
In ancient Mesopotamia, it
was Marduk fighting Tiamat.
In the Rig Veda, it was
Indra fighting Vritra.
You can take these
traditions and distill out
the common thematic
patterns in them
and reconstruct the
history behind them.
>> If there is a pattern
to be dissected by science
and mythology that tell
a different story of how
the universe operates,
where do we begin?
Wall believes we should start
with the ancient recollection
of an Earth bathed
in a different light.
>> The most ancient
recollections talk about
the light being dim,
rather purplish,
and there being no seasons.
So this meant the
Earth's situation
in the cosmos at that stage
was quite different to what
it is now, orbiting the Sun.
That took me decades
to figure out.
But having done it, it does
require that we understand
stars for the first time.
And I say that because our
present story of how stars
function and what
they actually are
is based on a belief established
in 1920 by Eddington,
the astronomer, who felt that
the only way to have a star
shine for millions of
years was for it to be
powered by a nuclear energy.
Now, of course, we look at
stars as being isolated objects
in space at vast distances
from one another being fueled
internally, which is
like the old campfire
in the sky of the Aboriginals.
It's just an updated version
of that ancient story.
But the truth is different.
In modern times, when we
discovered electricity,
we found that we can generate
the power some distance away.
It can be hundreds or even
thousands of miles away,
and yet we can light a
home with electric lights.
It has not been considered
that stars are connected
electrically to the galaxy,
and that they trace the spiral
arms of a galaxy like
streetlights following
the power lines.
When you have that
situation, you
don't have to have
nuclear energy lighting
a star from inside.
This paints a whole different
picture of what a star is.
And it also paints a
whole different picture
of what the various
types of stars
are, the red stars, the blue
stars, the white dwarfs, and so
on.
They have to be then
explained electrically, which
is a whole different ballgame.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Wall suggests this electrical
understanding of stars might
explain that Earth originally
could have orbited a different
star than our current Sun.
He was able to pinpoint
that at one time,
the Earth might have
orbited a red dwarf.
>> The ancients said that there
was no seasons and there was no
rain, that water misted it
out of the atmosphere almost
continually.
This is the ideal situation
for the carboniferous era,
giant plants.
And they're found in the
Antarctic and the Arctic,
the remains of these things.
The question was, how on
earth did they grow there?
Red stars probably of
such a low temperature,
and their redness is
actually responsible
for this dim red
light, that we were
part of a red dwarf system
which was captured by the Sun.
The idea that life is
more likely to be found
inside the red anode
glow, as it's called,
paints a different picture
to the situation on Earth.
When you orbiting
inside a glowing sphere,
you receive the same energy over
every square inch of the body.
That means that the poles
are at the same temperature
as the equator, and
it doesn't matter
whether you're orbiting
fast, upside down,
on your side, whatever, you'll
still receive the same energy.
So any other body in that same
environment will feel the same.
The question then
arises, well, if we
were partner to a red dwarf,
where's the red dwarf?
Well, the answer to
that electrically
is easily answered too.
On entry into the
Sun's environment,
that electric light
would switch off.
Not only that, because it's at
a lower voltage than the Sun,
it would turn into a comet.
>> The red dwarf deactivation
could be explained simply
by the difference of voltage
between European and American
appliances.
American appliances run at
110, while European appliances
run at 220.
If you try to plug in
a high voltage item
into a standard line, it
could fry your appliances,
electrocute you, or
cause a power outage.
In the case of the red
dwarf, the Sun's voltage
was much stronger, and therefore
it caused a power outage
in the red dwarf, which then
caused it to lose its ability
to electrically keep Earth
and Mars orbiting its body.
>> And so the whole
system, when it broke down,
the red glowing light
would disappear.
We would see the stars, and
we would see the universe
for the first time.
>> If this is true, could there
be more documented evidence
of a new Sun witnessed
around the globe?
>> One of the most important
myths that we latched
on to early on that has just
been generally overlooked
by other scholars is that
the primeval Sun is described
in terms that are impossible to
reconcile with the current Sun.
For example, the Mayan bible
is called the Popol Vuh,
and in that document,
they will describe
the origin of the first Sun.
And it says, when the
Sun first appeared,
it was fixed in the
sky like a mirror,
and they specifically
say that that Sun is not
the present Sun.
If that tradition was
only found in Mesoamerica,
you might overlook it.
But we have now tracked
down similar traditions
in ancient Egypt, ancient
Mesopotamia, ancient India,
like in the Rig
Veda, they described
as the Sun is sitting as a
stone in the middle of the sky,
just like the Popol Vuh
describes their Sun.
So clearly, they're talking
about a different Sun
than our current Sun, because
the current Sun obviously
does not sit still, fixed
in the middle of the sky.
In the Epic of Gilgamesh,
for example, there's
a very famous passage that says
that the Sun both rose and set
over the same
mountain, Mount Mashu.
And obviously, the current
Sun can't both rise
and set over the same mountain.
But in our theory, the Sun was
fixed in the sky over a world
mountain, so it is certainly
possible for it to rise
and set from the same place.
And so that's not
just a tradition
confined to the Gilgamesh
epic found already
let's say, in 2000 BC.
It's a very, very old tradition.
It'll be found all
around the world.
>> Could the current Sun
have electrically deactivated
our first Sun?
If so, how would a new Sun have
affected life on planet Earth?
And what would the
ancients have witnessed?
>> One of the other aspects
of being a satellite of a red
dwarf is that red dwarfs,
being an electrical object,
have only one way of
dealing with changes
in their electrical environment,
and that is to eject matter.
They flare.
And this is known--
astronomers have been
absolutely amazed
at the fury of some of these
outbursts from red dwarfs.
Now in the case of
our red dwarf star,
it, in encountering
the Sun's environment,
would have had to
adjust suddenly
to the Sun's environment.
In the process, it
would have ejected
material in large quantity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We can actually identify
the possible bodies
that were involved in all
of this by the axial tilt,
because each spinning
planet acts like a gyro
and doesn't like to be
disturbed from its pointing
to the fixed stars.
This is why gyros are
used for navigation.
Once you've got
them spinning, they
like to stay pointing to
the same star in the sky.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The Earth with its tilt of 23
and 1/2 degrees, the nearest
next one is Mars, and
the next one is Saturn.
They're all within a degree
or two of each other, which
suggests very strongly
that they were associated
in this former system.
Venus is the odd one out.
>> Wall believes that the amount
of material ejected from Saturn
as it deactivated would
have been the size of Venus,
and this is why it is the odd
one out in the solar system.
In fact, piecing together
the ancient evidence,
that was the time when
Venus was actually ejected
from the interior of Saturn.
Venus would have no time to
lock its rotation to that
of its parent, and so
when it was ejected,
it was also given a
slight backward kick, just
like two gears meshing.
And as a result today,
Venus is the only planet
in the solar system which
is rotating backwards.
If you're an ancient person
looking up at the sky,
what you are seeing is a
parade of planetary objects,
which the ancients named,
and also named them as gods.
In other words, man
felt totally powerless
in the face of all
of this activity that
was going on in the sky.
>> Myths around the globe
describe Venus as a comet-like
object.
And so you need to
envision a gigantic planet
close to the Earth with a
miles long tail spanning
the solar system.
And most peoples compared it
to a fire breathing dragon.
And it was terrifying
to look at,
and it certainly caused
a lot of disasters,
both in its immediate vicinity,
and raining towards the Earth.
So it was a
terrifying situation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And the planet Mars is
involved in the same events.
Mars was actually closer
to the Earth at the time,
but it's smaller
body than Venus.
According to our
theory, Mars and Venus
participated in a very
unique configuration
that we call the
polar configuration.
And so as the Earthlings looked
upwards to the North Pole,
they would see first | planet
Mars as a gigantic red orb,
and then behind it they
would see the planet Venus.
And as Venus started spiraling
out as a comet-like object,
it appeared to be a
dragon surrounding Mars.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the Egyptian
text, for example,
they will say that the eye of
Horus raged around in the sky
and created all these disasters.
Raining fire, raining blood,
blood was throughout the land.
And so they will
specifically say
that the eye of Horus as Hathor
rained blood from the sky.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Sumerian texts say
the exact same thing
about the planet
Venus known as Inanna.
So Inanna, just like
Hathor, rains blood
from the sky, and the texts say
that rivers flowed with blood.
It was a spectacularly
powerful disaster witnessed
around the globe, and it went on
for a prolonged period of time.
>> The prolonged period of time
could have held the ancient
people in fear and of what
was happening in the sky.
The Thunderbolt team believes
that when Venus and Mars came
close to Earth,
they electrically
interacted with the
Earth's surface,
sending meteorites and material
from the surface of the planets
to the surface of Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Venus would litter the Earth
with these hot stones that
would eventually cool and look
green, while stones from Mars
would have a red tint.
The team believes that the
idea of green associated
with the heart and
Venus originated
from these interactions
with the planets,
as well as redstones associated
with the war god Mars.
>> The myths both describe
Venus throwing out this reddish
material.
But as time wore on, that
material turned green.
And so the myths in
Egypt, for example,
will have the eye of
Horus then scattering
green star-like efflux
around the vicinity of Mars
and the Earth, and so it
goes from raining blood
to raining these like,
turquoise stones.
The qualities ascribed to the
various gemstones and colors
themselves will trace to
these planetary events.
So the planet Mars
is always associated
with iron or the color red,
and so red-colored gems
traditionally will be
associated with the planet Mars,
like carnelian
stone, for example.
And turquoise will be
associated with Venus
nine times out of 10.
So in Greek lore,
for example, you
have Aphrodite that's associated
with copper, greenish copper.
Throughout Mesoamerica,
here in America, the Mayan,
the Aztecs essentially
worship turquoise stones,
and they associated
them with the planets
and with objects
thrown from the sky.
And they make that very
specific in their rituals
that the reason they
value these objects
is because these are
stones thrown from the sky.
>> Could these colors and
symbols that we use today
originate from this
disaster in the sky?
If so, what else
did the ancients
experience on a ground
level that might be
in some respects, terrifying?
>> The electric universe
paints a different picture
to the solar system.
And that is that
electricity plays
a role when the planets are
not operating on stable orbits.
Now modern astronomy talks about
the magnetosphere of the Earth.
It is actually a plasmosphere,
because plasma behaves
in almost the fashion
of a living organism,
and it forms cell walls
between an object embedded
in the plasma and the plasma
itself, the surrounding plasma.
Now in the solar
system, of course,
the Earth's magnetosphere
sits in the solar wind, which
is actually the solar plasma.
And when these plasma
spheres, if you like,
which are much larger
than the planet touch,
the electrical connection is
established between the two
objects, be they planets,
or even asteroids,
or comets, when
that happens, there
is a direct connection
then between the two bodies
that the plasma is such
that it is very diffuse.
It's spaces has got very few
particles per cubic meter.
That means that
when it discharges,
it doesn't look like
normal lightning.
The ancients actually described
this interplanetary lightning
as like a coal spat from a fire.
So this object travels
between the two bodies.
It's known today from
modern plasma physics
that that is called
a plasmoid, and it's
a very compact form of energy
transfer between two bodies.
But when it
approaches the Earth,
that begins to disintegrate
into colossal lightning bolts
the like of which we
can hardly imagine,
but it's enough to
sculpt the Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What would these colossal
lightning bolts have looked
like?
And what kind of ancient
imagery might depict this?
>> There were tremendous
electromagnetic interactions
between the respective planets.
And so as terrestrial people
looked up the polar column,
they saw this giant cyclone-like
object rotating around,
causing disasters on the Earth.
That was compared to a
giant single leg in the sky,
for example.
And so our modern word hurricane
comes from the Mesoamerican
word Hurakan, which was
the name of their main god,
their creator god, and he was
described as having one leg,
and that leg or the
gods supported heaven
on his shoulders, kind
of like the Greek Atlas.
And so you get this image of
this one-legged, gigantic,
hurricane-like
phenomenon that is just
wreaking havoc in the
northern circumpolar heavens.
>> We know that lightning, just
the ordinary sparks of Earthly
lightning today
make loud noises,
but the noises from these
interplanetary thunderbolts
were sufficient to break the
sound barrier and actually make
the Earth move, almost
as if it was a liquid,
and then freeze once
the shock passed.
So it created the
strange formations,
like the triangular
formations we
see on the mountain ranges
in the southwest of the US.
The ancient witnesses actually
saw these electrical events,
and they described the
changes in the landscape
at the same time.
So we have good
physical evidence
for what the ancients
were trying to tell us.
The Grand Canyon looks
like a minor, tributary
of that colossal scar.
All of the features
of the Grand Canyon
can be reproduced
in the laboratory
by electric machining
electric arcing.
And that is the
stumpy tributaries
with very steep walls, the lack
of any evidence of the outflow
of all the material that
must have been carved
from that canyon, because
in the electrical event,
the material is shot into space.
Forget gravity when
electricity is in operation.
Gravity is a puny force.
It can excavate whole
mountain ranges into the space
without any effort
at all on its part.
>> How would the planets
Venus and Mars have looked
to the ancients during
this interaction?
>> Venus was described as being
brighter than 10,000 Suns,
which is the same phrase that
was used to describe the first
atomic explosions.
The brilliance of the
object being so close
and also with this
cometary display, which
is an electrical phenomenon
as well, that bright cometary
style like appearance
is actually
an electrical discharge
on the surface
of the body that's
approaching you.
So the combination of
electrical energy and the heat,
because Venus was a new planet,
that most of the activity
took place between
Venus and Mars.
Mars was acting like a go
between between Venus and us.
And so the god of war
was so named Mars,
because he was the
sort of intermediary,
and he fought the
demons, the monsters
which Venus had unleashed.
In other words, this is material
that had been shot into space
and was now visible
as separate comets.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If the ancients lived in
fear of these gods carving
their Earth into pieces, how
would this event have formed
the basis for the floods
recorded in ancient times?
>> Well, certainly, it would
disturb the rotation of both
bodies.
And the Earth's rotation
would have been affected,
and it would be fairly sudden.
That sudden change
in rotation would
mean that the
Earth's oceans would
tend to slosh over
the land, and so
the stories of great floods
over lands, of course,
these stories are universal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The Australian Aborigines talk
about the ocean passing over
the northwest of the country
into the center of Australia
where we've got those
Great Salt lakes where
the ocean water dried out.
So the other aspect, of course,
would be intense earthquakes,
because earthquakes also are an
electrical phenomenon, largely
like underground lightning.
The Romans used to complain
about the noise of the Earth
groaning apparently.
So there would have
been colossal noise,
the sound of these
cosmic lightning
bolts hitting the Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If they were very distant,
sounded like giant trumpets.
So you can get an idea of where
the archangel trumpeting came
from.
>> If this is evidence of
a life-changing event that
happened because of an
electrical encounter
in our solar system, could
this explain the abundance
of the creation myths?
>> In the creation myth
in the Enuma Elis, Marduk,
the warrior hero, fights
against Tiamat the great dragon.
And the upshot of that battle
is after a tremendous struggle,
Marduk slays Tiamat
and takes her body
and forms the organized
world with it.
So her body comes to
form heaven and Earth.
She is split in two
by the warrior hero.
And each of those
episodes will correspond
to a real reconstructable
event in the history
of the solar system.
And so most people
just pay attention
to that particular myth,
but the same exact myth
is told all around the planet.
So in the Rig Veda,
for example, you
have Indra splitting the dragon
Vritra and forming the cosmos.
The Old Testament
refers to Yahweh
destroying the dragon Leviathan.
>> If the myths of the world
describe a mass destruction
and a new Sun that disturbed
their current reality,
how then did it shape the
psyche around the event?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the ancient myths
describing the planet Venus
as a fire-breathing dragon, such
as the Egyptian myth of the eye
of Horus, Venus is certainly
represented as a harbinger
of destruction and a
catastrophic agent and raining
fire from the sky,
raining giant meteorites,
bringing death and destruction,
according to the Egyptian
texts.
So it stands to
reason that the planet
Venus would get a negative
reputation in many
of the ancient texts.
And so a classic example
of a negative Venus
would be the Hindu
Kali goddess, where
she has a distended tongue
and she has disheveled pitch
black hair, and the hair
is sweeping away the Sun,
causing eclipses,
causing disasters.
Kali is kind of like
a global archetype
of the terrible or
negative goddess.
>> Could fear of the
unpredictable heavens have
caused the ancients to forget
their original past and only
remember creation from
the moment of destruction?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
They saw in the sky they
thought was the creation
of the home of the gods.
And when you think about it,
every ancient race on Earth
has their creation myth.
And the most
ancient remembrances
of what happened, these
creations in the sky,
it shows you that
for any religion
to think that it's talking about
the beginning of the universe
is mistaken.
The creation myths are
talking about the creation
of the present day
system of the planets.
And it was at the mercy of the
planetary gods, because they
were the ones that were creating
this citadel in the sky.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If humankind stood in fear
of this universe they were now
indoctrined to, what would
they do with this fear?
And how has that original
fear affected our thinking,
our society, and our DNA?
>> Both Joseph Campbell and Carl
Jung were aware of this problem
for mankind.
Carl Jung said our greatest
danger is ourselves, because he
understood man's symbols.
And when you understand
those symbols,
it's strangely liberating.
The biggest problem
facing mankind
is not remembering the past, and
we have a desire not to know,
he said.
Instead, we live it vicariously
by our doomsday movies,
our occasional warfares.
And we have this strange
destructive behavior,
both towards the planet,
and towards each other.
It can only be addressed, I
think, by understanding that
ourselves, to
achieve rationality,
we must address this global
post-traumatic stress disorder
and understand the past.
>> In this series, we will dive
deeper into the ancient past,
where more evidence will be
uncovered on each planetary
body that suggests something
destructive and something
electric happened 10,000
years ago in our solar system.
There are markings that our
satellites have photographed
of a massive event.
There are ancient symbols
that depict something strange
in the sky.
And there is science that
rivals Einstein's theory.
If there really is
an electric universe,
why is it not public knowledge?
And who wanted to
keep it a secret?
The story of cosmology
and the takeover
of modern physics, next.
[MUSIC PLAYING]